---
title: "Learning to Automatically Generate Accurate ECG Captions"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% import "_macros.html" as macros %}

# Learning to Automatically Generate Accurate ECG Captions

#### Mathieu Guido Geert Bartels, Ivona Najdenkoska, Rutger van de Leur, Arjan Sammani, Karim Taha, David M Knigge, Pieter A Doevendans, Marcel Worring, René van Es

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="">Proceedings</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=Y-kXbPYtzsg">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=Y-kXbPYtzsg">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        The electrocardiogram (ECG) is an affordable, non-invasive and quick method to gain essential information about the electrical activity of the heart. Interpreting ECGs is a time-consuming process even for experienced cardiologists, which motivates the current usage of rule-based methods in clinical practice to automatically describe ECGs. However, in comparison with descriptions created by experts, ECG-descriptions generated by such rule-based methods show considerable limitations. Inspired by image captioning methods, we instead propose a data-driven approach for ECG description generation. We introduce a label-guided Transformer model, and show that it is possible to automatically generate relevant and readable ECG descriptions with a data-driven captioning model. We incorporate prior ECG labels into our model design, and show this improves the overall quality of generated descriptions. We find that training these models on free-text annotations of ECGs - instead of the clinically-used computer generated ECG descriptions - greatly improves performance. Moreover, we perform a human expert evaluation study of our best system, which shows that our data-driven approach improves upon existing rule-based methods.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Wednesday 6th July<br>Poster Session 1.1 - onsite 15:20 - 16:20, virtual 11:00 - 12:00 (UTC+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---
{{ macros.video("https://video.midl.io/2022/long/234.mp4") }}
