---
title: "Robustness Against Out of Distribution Video Frames in Online Surgical Workflow Recognition with Temporal Convolutional Networks"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% import "_macros.html" as macros %}

# Robustness Against Out of Distribution Video Frames in Online Surgical Workflow Recognition with Temporal Convolutional Networks

#### Amirhossein Bayat, Kadir Kirtac, Salih karagoz, Julien Schwerin, Michael Stenzel, Marco Smit, Florian Aspart

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="">Proceedings</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=yfnDR7kiGQI">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=yfnDR7kiGQI">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        The automatic recognition of surgical phase based on laparoscopic videos is a pre-requisite to diverse AI application on surgeries. Online surgical phase recognition is commonly achieved using two-stages models combining (i) a spatial feature extraction at the frame level with a (ii) temporal model.  Yet, this online surgical phase recognition is a challenging task in real-world scenarios.  For example, the camera might be temporally extracted of the body during surgeries (e.g., to be cleaned). The Out-of-body (OOB) phases have out-of-distribution spatial features and have unpredictable occurrence which affect the temporal model performance. We propose a simple, yet effective, mechanism to robustify our temporal model against OOB phases.  Our solution leverages the two-stages structure of surgical phase model predictions. We train and test our model on a large scale real-world dataset of laparoscopic cholecystectomy videos and show the effectiveness of our approach.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Wednesday 6th July<br>Poster Session 1.2 - onsite 11:00 - 12:00, virtual 15:20 - 16:20 (UTC+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---
{{ macros.video("https://video.midl.io/2022/short/86.mp4") }}
