---
title: "Diffusion Models for Implicit Image Segmentation Ensembles"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% import "_macros.html" as macros %}

# Diffusion Models for Implicit Image Segmentation Ensembles

#### Julia Wolleb, Robin Sandkuehler, Florentin Bieder, Philippe Valmaggia, Philippe C. Cattin

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="">Proceedings</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=QNLR05X6uW">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=QNLR05X6uW">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Diffusion models have shown impressive performance for generative modelling of images. In this paper, we present a novel semantic segmentation method based on diffusion models. By modifying the training and sampling scheme, we show that diffusion models can perform lesion segmentation of medical images. To generate an image specific segmentation, we train the model on the ground truth segmentation, and use the image as a prior during training and in every step during the sampling process. With the given stochastic sampling process, we can generate a distribution of segmentation masks. This property allows us to compute pixel-wise uncertainty maps of the segmentation, and allows an implicit ensemble of segmentations that increases the segmentation performance. We evaluate our method on the BRATS2020 dataset for brain tumor segmentation. Compared to state-of-the-art segmentation models, our approach yields good segmentation results and, additionally, detailed uncertainty maps.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Thursday 7th July<br>Poster Session 2.2 - onsite 11:00 - 12:00, virtual 15:20 - 16:20 (UTC+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---
{{ macros.video("https://video.midl.io/2022/long/70.mp4") }}
